revamp getting started (#83)
massalabs/massa-docs: web3-dev/smart-contracts/getting-started.rst

Getting started
===============

> In this section you will learn how to setup your smart contract development environment, how to deploy your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section you will learn how to setup your smart-contract development environment, how to deploy your
```

Author: Ena said me no dash!  i changed all `smart-contract` to `smart contract`

Reviewer 2: I think this one is not resolved afterall!

> In this section you will learn how to setup your smart contract development environment, how to deploy your

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this section you will learn how to set up your smart-contract development environment, how to deploy your
```

Author: so in the end, with or without the dash?

> first Massa smart contract and how to call that smart contract.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
first Massa smart contract, and how to call that smart contract.
```

Setting up a new project
------------------------

Make sure you have a recent version of `Node.js <https://nodejs.org/>`_  and `npm <https://www.npmjs.com/>`_.
Update or `install <https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm>`_ them if needed.

`@massalabs/sc-project-initializer <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-toolkit/tree/main/packages/sc-project-initializer>`_ is a tool that creates a boilerplate
smart-contract project. To create a smart-contract project, invoke the initializer by running:

.. code-block:: shell

  npx @massalabs/sc-project-initializer init my-sc && cd my-sc

> You now have an npm project, created in `my-sc` folder. It contains all tools that will be used to compile AssemblyScript to Wasm bytecode, as well as deploying and running your smart contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You now have a npm project, created in `my-sc` folder. It contains all tools that will be used to compile AssemblyScript to Wasm bytecode, as well as deploying and running your smart contracts.
```

Congratulations! Now you have a fully set up project and you are ready to add some code.

.. note::
   A few words on project folders:

>    * `assembly` is where the assemblyScript source code goes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * `assembly` is where the AssemblyScript source code goes.
```

   * `build` will be created during compilation and will contain compiled smart contracts.
   * `src` contains typescript code used to interact with the network.

Create your first smart contract
--------------------------------

Since the beginning of mankind, humans explain how to use a program, a new language,
a service by implementing a *Hello world!*. Your first smart contract will be no exception!

Open the `assembly/contracts/main.ts` file and replace its content by the following one:

.. code-block:: typescript

   // The entry file of your WebAssembly module.
   import { Args } from '@massalabs/as-types';
   import { generateEvent } from '@massalabs/massa-as-sdk';

   export function sayHello(args: StaticArray<u8>): void {

>       const name = new Args(args).nextString().unwrap();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      const name = new Args(args).nextString().expect('name argument is invalid');
```

      const message = `Hello world! Greetings from ${name} 👋`;
      generateEvent(message);
   }

.. note::
   Massa smart-contract module (`@massalabs/massa-as-sdk`) contains the API you need
   to use to interact with the external world of the smart contract (the node, the ledger...).

Don't forget to save the file. Before starting compilation, just a few words to describe what is used here:

* line 3: `sayHello` function is exported. This means that the `sayHello` function can be called

>   by another smart contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  by the outside world (another smart contract of massa-web3).
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from outside of the smart contract. For instance by another smart contract or through the API (see :ref:`massa-web3 <web3-massa-web3>`).
```

Reviewer 2: I think it is an important point that there are different ways to call a SC function. Probably mention it later when we show how to call it using the deployer.

Deploy your smart contract
--------------------------

Your smart contract is now ready to be deployed and later executed on the Massa network.

Uploading a smart contract on the Massa blockchains requires coins. On top of the usual gas

> costs, Massa has also :ref:`storage costs <storage-cost>`. In order to deploy your smart contract,

Reviewer: I got the error 

`/Users/nathanmassa/dev/massa-docs/web3-dev/smart-contracts/getting-started.rst:91: WARNING: undefined label: 'storage-cost'`

   Contract deployed at address: A1u6xTYnRBM5dDJPiXV5CpV4FXRiwDTeHmgUv3zLmdBr2J7aaKu

Wait for a few seconds... It should return you the deployed smart-contract address.
Save it somewhere, it will be used in the next step.

Run your smart contract
------------------------

Open the `assembly/contracts/run.ts` file and replace its content by the following one.
Then replace `<your contract address>` by the address of the deployed contract (from the previous step).

.. code-block:: typescript

   import { Address, call } from '@massalabs/massa-as-sdk';
   import { Args } from '@massalabs/as-types';

   export function constructor(args: StaticArray<u8>): StaticArray<u8> {
      callHelloContract(args);
      return [];
   }

   function callHelloContract(args: StaticArray<u8>): void {
      const address = new Address(
         '<your contract address>',
      );
      call(address, 'sayHello', new Args(args), 0);
      return;
   }

* line 4: `constructor` function is a special function which will be called when our run smart-contract will be deployed.
* line 9: `callHelloContract` function will initialize an Address object containing the deployed smart-contract address and call it.

> * line 13: `call` function makes the call to an already deployed contract, at the given address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* line 13: `call` function calls the given function of the smart contract deployed at the given address.
```

Now that everything is ready, we have to build our new contract:

.. note::
   * The `npm run build` command will build every smart contract in the folder `assembly/contracts`.

.. code-block:: shell

   npm run build

Now let's have a look at the deployer script `src/deployer.ts` and stop at the `deploySC` instruction.

.. code-block:: typescript

  ...
  await deploySC(
    publicApi,
    deployerAccount,
    [
      {
        data: readFileSync(path.join(__dirname, 'build', 'main.wasm')),
        coins: 0,
        args: new Args().addString('test'),
      } as ISCData,
    ],
    0,
    4_200_000_000,
    true,
  );
  ...

This function lets us set the smart contract to be deployed when running `npm run deploy`.

> It also allows us to add arguments to the call.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also allows us to pass arguments to the call to the `constructor` function.
```
Am I right ?

Let's modify the code in order to deploy our run smart contract by replacing `main.wasm` by `run.wasm`.

> We also want to set a name as argument to be used in our `sayHello` contract by replacing `test` by your name!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's also replace the `test` string used as an argument by our name so that it will be passed to the `sayHello` function of our smart contract!
```

> We are now ready to deploy our run smart contract

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are now ready to deploy our run smart contract:
```

.. code-block:: shell

   npm run deploy

.. code-block:: shell

>    > my-massa-sc@0.0.1 deploy

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a bit of context on top of this box.

   > npm run build && ts-node src/deploy.ts

   > my-massa-sc@0.0.1 build
   > npx massa-as-compile

   2 files to compile

   Wallet balance:  469.81775
   Operation submitted with id: O12U6qa379CFeyYVJhkr5FTAzzgepwFabanNxCffyuis3jcJVMxP
   Waiting for events...
   Deployment success with events:
   Hello world! Greetings from Bob 👋
   Contract deployed at address: A12TosPSoPoQoSLrEnsmbJMCLRbRgbxGSpz8q4dsnFHE9Psr4NBU

> Thats it! After a few seconds you should see the "Hello world! Greetings from <Name> 👋`" message coming from the contract's event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's it! After a few seconds you should see the "Hello world! Greetings from <Name> 👋" message coming from the contract's event.
```

To facilitate the work of the developer, the `npm run deploy` command will also build your contracts underthehood so you don't have to run `npm run build` yourself.

Wait for a few seconds... The last line of the output is the deployed smart contract address.
Save it somewhere, it will be used in the next step.

Calling your smart contract
------------------------

Open the `assembly/contracts/run.ts` file and replace its content by the following one.
Then replace `<your contract address>` by the address of the deployed contract that you obtained in the previous step.

.. code-block:: typescript

   import { Address, call } from '@massalabs/massa-as-sdk';
   import { Args } from '@massalabs/as-types';

   export function constructor(args: StaticArray<u8>): StaticArray<u8> {
      callHelloContract(args);
      return [];
   }

   function callHelloContract(args: StaticArray<u8>): void {
      const address = new Address(
         '<your contract address>',
      );
      call(address, 'sayHello', new Args(args), 0);
      return;
   }

* line 4: `constructor` is a special function that is called when the run smart-contract is deployed.

> * line 9: `callHelloContract` function initialises an Address object using the address of the deployed smart-contract and then calls the `sayHello` function of the smart contract.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* line 9: `callHelloContract` function initialises an Address object using the address of the deployed smart contract and then calls the `sayHello` function of the smart contract.
```

> * line 13: `call` function calls the given function of the smart contract deployed at the given address.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* line 13: `call` function calls the given function of the smart contract, deployed at the given address.
```

   npm run deploy

Wait for a few seconds... It should return you the deployed smart contract address.
Save it somewhere, it will be used in the next step.

Run your smart contract
------------------------

Open the `assembly/contracts/run.ts` file and replace its content by the following one.

> Then replace `<your contract address>` by the address of deployed contract (from the previous step).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then replace `<your contract address>` by the address of the deployed contract (from the previous step).
```

.. code-block:: typescript

   import { Address, call } from '@massalabs/massa-as-sdk';
   import { Args } from '@massalabs/as-types';

   export function constructor(args: StaticArray<u8>): StaticArray<u8> {
      callHelloContract(args);
      return [];
   }

   function callHelloContract(args: StaticArray<u8>): void {
      const address = new Address(
         '<your contract address>',
      );
      call(address, 'sayHello', new Args(args), 0);
      return;
   }

* line 4: `constructor` function is a special function which will be called when our run smart-contract will be deployed.

> * line 9: `callHelloContract` function will initialize an Address object containing or deployed smart-contract address and call it.

Reviewer 3: not properly written, need explanation to rewrite

> * line 13: `call` function make the call to an already deployed contract at the given address.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* line 13: `call` function makes the call to an already deployed contract, at the given address.
```

Now that everything is ready, we have to build our new contract:

.. note::

>    * The `npm run build` command will build every smart-contract presents in folder `assembly/contracts`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * The `npm run build` command will build every smart contract, in the folder `assembly/contracts`.
```

Author: so? smart contract or smart-contract ?

.. code-block:: shell

   npm run build

> Now lets have a look at the deployer script `src/deployer.ts` and stop at the `deploySC` instruction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now let's have a look at the deployer script `src/deployer.ts` and stop at the `deploySC` instruction.
```

.. code-block:: typescript

  ...
  await deploySC(
    publicApi,
    deployerAccount,
    [
      {
        data: readFileSync(path.join(__dirname, 'build', 'main.wasm')),
        coins: 0,
        args: new Args().addString('test'),
      } as ISCData,
    ],
    0,
    4_200_000_000,
    true,
  );
  ...

> This function let us set the smart contract to be deployed when running `npm run deploy`.
> It also allow us to add arguments to the call.
> Lets modify the code to deploy our run smart contract by replacing `main.wasm` by `run.wasm`.
> We also want to set a name as argument to be used in our `sayHello` contract by replacing `test` by your name!
> 
> We are now ready to deploy our run smart contract

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This function lets us set the smart contract to be deployed when running `npm run deploy`.
It also allows us to add arguments to the call.
Let's modify the code in order to deploy our run smart contract by replacing `main.wasm` by `run.wasm`.
We also want to set a name as argument to be used in our `sayHello` contract by replacing `test` by your name!

We are now ready to deploy our run smart contract:
```

.. code-block:: shell

   npm run deploy

> Thats it! after a few seconds you should see the "Hello world! Greetings from <Name> 👋`" message coming from the contract's event.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Thats it! After a few seconds you should see the "Hello world! Greetings from <Name> 👋`" message coming from the contract's event.
```
